Elodie Billionnniere: hi hi Rachel making sure that the panelists I hear.
Almira Myra Roldan: I led.
Elodie Billionnniere: Are you doing.
Good you good good.
Elodie Billionnniere: quincy is coming she just finished a panel so she's on the way.
Almira Myra Roldan: it's been long so long since i've seen your face led hope.
Elodie Billionnniere: has been a year.
Almira Myra Roldan: yeah.
Almira Myra Roldan: you're not half.
Elodie Billionnniere: or your hair along girl all right.
Elodie Billionnniere: Kevin 19 is doing good with the hair right.
Elodie Billionnniere: yeah this kitty.
Elodie Billionnniere: hi Rachel, thank you for accepting the invitation, yes, thank you so much for having me.
Elodie Billionnniere: Yes, um so I know it's a little break so on the the attendee are going to join.
Elodie Billionnniere: In about 10 minutes or so.
Elodie Billionnniere: So we missing one person we're missing the lady from IBM and see.
Elodie Billionnniere: I am here it's can you hear i'm sorry.
Elodie Billionnniere: All right, hi Kimberly.
Kimberly Greene Starks: hi melody how are you.
Elodie Billionnniere: Good good good.
Elodie Billionnniere: I know we have Okay, so it puts you at the coast, on what wonderful.
Elodie Billionnniere: Lady looking great, even though we virtual around and like you know the little outfit and Alaska rights wonderful and quincy is here all right awesome i'll let you take over quincy.
Quincy Brown: Okay, so I think I figured out how to do the slides.
Quincy Brown: i'm Hello everyone sorry it's been.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Hello Hello that's a.
Quincy Brown: See I think i've never actually I don't usually use Google chrome, and so I mean Google slides so but I think if I do.
This hold on, let me do this a little differently, I practice in my last session stop that.
Sorry.
Time to.
Quincy Brown: now see the slides.
Elodie Billionnniere: Right, yes, we do yeah perfect Okay, you want to test it out to make sure that you can move change the slide and there's no technical issues.
Quincy Brown: yeah so you have a slide to say yes.
It works perfect they're fine.
Quincy Brown: And so what we'll do is I shared before there are.
Quincy Brown: Some hidden slides that kind of keep it separated to know whose lives are whose lives are which and so.
Quincy Brown: You know we'll just go through that I mean whoever slides there are can just tell me, you know next slide.
Quincy Brown: And I can do that, I think it might be good, I was thinking it might be good to.
Quincy Brown: say you know take questions from the audience, I was just in a in a session, where people were just you know, keeping a lot of conversation going in the chat and.
Quincy Brown: And that's the best at keeping you know, reading the messages and keeping my eye on all the things, but I will do my best to do that, so that we can you know, have a more interactive experience with the.
Quincy Brown: Engaging engaging conversation would that be okay, or would you all really prefer that we wait till the end and people ask all the questions of your own.
Kimberly Greene Starks: i'm happy to monitor the chat as well we do that quite often so i'll be in the lb in the chat answering questions, one on one we can raise some of those.
Quincy Brown: Okay, great so I mean we may not get to all of the answers I mean all of the questions.
Quincy Brown: But we can you know get as far as for yourself, you can.
Quincy Brown: Was there anything specific any of the panelists wanted to raise my Rachel family.
Quincy Brown: No, no, I was gonna say no just really, really happy to be able to be here and have this conversation together, I think this is great okay you sound kind of low okay well, let me, let me play with my MIC.
hold on one second.
Almira Myra Roldan: and watch her Mike This is my room I don't have anything that I think I want to add it i'm more curious to see what kind of questions come up also so happy to monitor chat as well, I think this is an interesting discussion to actually have yeah.
Rachel Wortman Morris: How is this is this better for the MIC.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Yes, okay great.
Quincy Brown: And I guess someone will do the spotlighting or I don't know mean or we'll just leave it like that, and the one I was just in they somebody spotlighted the panelists.
I don't know who did that but someone did it.
That like the studio.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Somebody is spotlighting right now, I think.
Quincy Brown: Oh, I don't know.
Elodie Billionnniere: Oh yes, I am.
Elodie Billionnniere: sure that this to know how to do it that's the reason why it needs to them that we didn't show that in the training so that's possible.
Elodie Billionnniere: Okay, well, I think I have everybody right, yes, yes.
Thank you welcome.
Elodie Billionnniere: i'll be back i'm going to check on the other, presentation, but I will be in that session.
Elodie Billionnniere: And then the student is here on Jay is here, James you are a student assistant, if you need anything okay.
Jaya Tyagi: yep i'm here Hello everyone.
Right.
Quincy Brown: yeah this will be interesting, my last one was about you know what can departments do about all of these issues, and so this is kind of the compliment to that about what's happening in industry to.
Quincy Brown: appreciate you all joining my glasses.
Thank you.
Almira Myra Roldan: gonna say hopefully the departments will join too, I think that would be valuable yeah.
Almira Myra Roldan: So, how was your currency on your last session How was the student response that they have a ton of questions.
Quincy Brown: I don't know who was too, but there was a lot of conversation in the in the in the chat.
Quincy Brown: Someone flagged that we weren't even looking at the.
Quincy Brown: chat in questions coming in through Hoover and I just can't do all that one.
Quincy Brown: That was that was going on as well.
Quincy Brown: But there were there was a lot of conversation in the chat that we tried to address through the through the comments we invited a few people to unmute unmute and and you know ask your questions directly and so some people chose to do that as well that worked pretty well.
Almira Myra Roldan: yeah I think that would be interesting to have them be able to ask questions also because I think that sometimes it's you know, like things come to mind, and some people may be shy to you know speak up, but you may have one that might be a little bit more vocal some yeah yeah.
Quincy Brown: So I will, I will make that clear that that is you know available after you know, once we can you all have given your remarks and answers to each question, and if people want to unmute they can do that, and we can see where the conversation goes.
Quincy Brown: I mean it was it was we touched a little bit on.
Quincy Brown: You know kind of learning, you know various stages in life.
Quincy Brown: and say later, but the various stages, and you know people were you know, starting in their 40s starting in their 50s and so I think that this topic is about what's what industry is doing is going to be really.
Quincy Brown: Really, timely and important a lot of interest in this.
Quincy Brown: Kimberly believe you have a skill of sitting extremely still.
Kimberly Greene Starks: On my back so.
Kimberly Greene Starks: i'm not frozen, I was just released it, I was.
Quincy Brown: I was in a session, but a meeting with someone, and I was like I think he's frozen or he's still but I seem like I was like that is i'm like a fidget or so i'm always moving and like I just I can't be still.
Rachel Wortman Morris: So I see we have about one more minute will we see sort of a flood of people come in, how do we know how do we know we were starting.
Quincy Brown: About 95 people in the previous session, and there was only one session happening at the time, so this time it's three so I was in my mind thinking 30 something ish.
Quincy Brown: You know I might wait a minute or so.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Now that's good to know, thank you.
Quincy Brown: yeah yeah cuz I wasn't sure either, but they also you know appeared.
Quincy Brown: Alright, good afternoon or interest for some people, good morning.
Quincy Brown: Let me share my my screen we're about ready to get started So hopefully this was well.
Almira Myra Roldan: yeah my good all right.
Quincy Brown: let's go me um let's see hopefully everyone can hear us and see us and see the slides that we have prepared for today so i'll start by.
Quincy Brown: Introducing this is the emerging tech education skills session and I am the moderator and we are going to have a wonderful conversation that complements the previous conversation about what is happening in industry regarding pathways to education.
see if I can make the slightest chance.
Quincy Brown: Okay, so I am your moderator I am quincy brown I if I don't know why I need to read my own slides and about who I am but.
Quincy Brown: I have been a number of places and have been a computer science Professor i've worked in federal government and and now in the nonprofit sector.
Quincy Brown: At a need to be org and also have my own nonprofit focused on supporting black women and girls in computing.
Quincy Brown: And I will be here to guide the conversation and i'll share what we'll do is we have five prepared questions with remarks.
Quincy Brown: And after each question will take you know we'll open the floor up so if people want to put their questions in the chat you're more than welcome to do that and our panelists can respond to those.
Quincy Brown: will also invite you to unmute and you know share your questions, no pressure if you feel more comfortable typing them in the chat that's fine if you prefer to unmute and ask your questions allowed we we would love to have for you to do that as well.
Quincy Brown: Okay next up Rachel.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Thank you hi my name is Dr Rachel work and Morris I direct the Microsoft learn for educators program for Microsoft I also co director and launch the Ai Business School in addition to my work.
Rachel Wortman Morris: At Microsoft i'm also a clinical assistant professor at the University of Washington, where I mainly work with graduate students and some professional students, so thank you so much for the invitation and really excited to be here today.
awesome.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Emily Hello i'm Kimberly green starks of IBM i'm the global infrastructure lead for university programs and i'm also an IBM master inventor.
Kimberly Greene Starks: i'm passionate about giving back to my Community through educating teens and adults and youngsters about innovation topics protecting your IP and coding languages, thank you i'm glad to be here.
Quincy Brown: Thank you you're gonna have to talk.
Quincy Brown: about this master inventor somewhere in your remarks.
Quincy Brown: We bet in that's awesome.
Quincy Brown: Mayra.
Almira Myra Roldan: Everyone i'm my rural Dan I am a senior technical program manager at Amazon.
Almira Myra Roldan: With a program called education to work for us and basically what that means is that I work with institutions to help them align their programs to market demand, based on a lot of research to.
Almira Myra Roldan: help you gain the skills, you need in order to be marketable and I i'm really passionate about closing the digital divide, I have a non traditional career path, I went from being a nurse to making a move into tech, many years ago and.
Almira Myra Roldan: You know now i'm an Amazon come from a small island so.
Almira Myra Roldan: i'm really excited to you know, be able to share with you and also you know, hopefully inspire all of you also.
Quincy Brown: awesome Thank you.
Quincy Brown: And i'll add that.
Quincy Brown: I appreciate you all, adding pieces of your background and your stories, because in your introductions in the you know multiple hats that you that you may wear.
Quincy Brown: Because we talked a lot about traditional and non traditional right, perhaps as though those were the only two choices.
Quincy Brown: When really you'll find that very I mean a small minority of people have kind of done the you know kindergarten through high school undergrad Grad you know.
Quincy Brown: And then into into the workforce, I mean that's a small number of people.
Quincy Brown: who've done that, and I think it's it's really important, especially as we have this conversation about re entry and all of the pathways into.
Quincy Brown: learning throughout one's life that we keep that in mind, and so I am looking forward to, and again I hope hope everyone watching and listening is going to engage with.
Quincy Brown: engage with our amazing panelists about you know what the opportunities are from an industry perspective, so we have our first question.
Quincy Brown: is about the skill development opportunities that are available at all of the career career levels for different companies at different companies, I should say so that is our first question, and we have let's see some prepared remarks from Rachel.
Rachel Wortman Morris: yeah Thank you, I think this builds that there we go.
Rachel Wortman Morris: So thank you so much, I think, as i'm speaking to you from my dining room and everything is under study.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know I think what we all recognize that we are living a global crisis and it is not only a global health crisis, but an economic one, and so, as we work our way through this pandemic our economy is evolving and for those who are out of work.
Rachel Wortman Morris: What we have seen is that there has been a rapid digital transformation, I would say that probably.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know, within the last year, as I talk with you know our customers at Microsoft, we have seen in some cases, five and 10 years of digital transformation happening in the last you know 12 months now.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so individuals coming back into our grid and even individuals working right now are returning to a different economy, one in which there is an intensified skilling challenge.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so the question around you know what are we doing for people at various stages, if you want to go to the next slide please is, you know how are we really then working to to go ahead and support job seekers or people even within jobs, who are looking to go ahead and grow.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so, if we want to go the next one of the the fabulous things in my in my job is that I also get to work very closely with linkedin.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Because Microsoft happens to own linkedin, and so we have access to a ton of data from their economic graph that helps us to understand.
Rachel Wortman Morris: He workforce trends look at the emerging skills gaps and the in demand, technical and product skills that are most in demand globally.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so what we've done is it's helped us to go ahead and identify the learning paths that are going to be most valuable to those who have been impacted by coven 19 and who are looking to re skill, or those in jobs where they realized that they need to upscale.
Rachel Wortman Morris: So we've looked at, not only are the things in demand, but also what has the greatest number of job openings right now.
Rachel Wortman Morris: What has the strongest rate of historical growth what pays you know, a living wage what can be obtained by reskilling without a four year degree and also what can be done online and so that was sort of our starting place and so from there if you'll go to the next.
Rachel Wortman Morris: What we identified happened to be 10 in demand jobs globally that are really relevant in today's economy and accessible for those who are seeking employment.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so, all of these for these 10 roles, there is rich content available on linkedin learning and as well, I think, if you go to the next, build on this slide.
Rachel Wortman Morris: We identified three.
Rachel Wortman Morris: That.
Rachel Wortman Morris: really go ahead and get you into this true technical space and what it will do, then, is that these advanced technical skills for three roles, will help to prepare you for certification.
Rachel Wortman Morris: we've done a fair amount of research lately in terms of certification in terms of how it goes ahead and helps you with.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know, salary job growth even for new grads and I think this is, you know these are some critically important not only sort of like what are the in demand roles, but also what are some pathways to go ahead and get you skilled in those and so, if we want to go to the next.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so, as we take a look at those three.
Rachel Wortman Morris: This allows you to go really deep on technical skills within Microsoft learn to gain valuable in demand job skills on these technologies so you get free hands on training.
Rachel Wortman Morris: To help you advance the technical skills interactive step by step, you know small tutorials and modules guided learning by product and skill level.
Rachel Wortman Morris: it's available in terms of you know, language, one of the things that we're really committed to is our global accessibility, so we have things that are localized in English, Spanish, French, German Japanese Korean and simplified Chinese.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And the content is available for free and then, if we if we go to the next, the exams, then, are also.
Rachel Wortman Morris: The exams are highly discounted so our exams are generally hundred dollars hundred and $60 you know again we're recognizing we want to go ahead and help everybody get these skills, we want to ensure that people can be successful so we've dropped our price on exams to $15 for.
Rachel Wortman Morris: For the ones that are that are shown here.
Rachel Wortman Morris: To really go ahead and support individuals and getting skilled and skilled for what we're facing in the future.
Rachel Wortman Morris: awesome Thank you thanks quincy.
Quincy Brown: All right, Kimberly did you have something to add to this.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Oh sure, of course.
Kimberly Greene Starks: So I think I have some slides to.
Quincy Brown: not do that right, I think I went too far, there you go.
Kimberly Greene Starks: that's okay that, but the other is a perfect place to begin the conversation so at the opening the opening remarks you heard the assistant director of the nsf say that.
Kimberly Greene Starks: In 2030 we we need 4 million people to occupy tech jobs, those are net new doesn't account for the people on the on this panel, who are already.
Kimberly Greene Starks: In the system, if you will, right, and so, in order to reach those people and to train them IBM has thought of things a little differently than how we did before.
Kimberly Greene Starks: IBM it's 100 plus year old company, and so, in order to reach people who maybe haven't come up traditionally through university and don't have for their four year degree.
Kimberly Greene Starks: We have relaxed the requirements for job requisition around the requirements for four year degree.
Kimberly Greene Starks: that we can reach people who are coming in the very structured traditional realm and so Jenny remember who you see on the screen she's our former.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Chairman and CEO and President of IBM she retired last year, and she had this thing, she would say let's work together to find an approach.
Kimberly Greene Starks: To bring these people in so they can have great careers and do something different, and do something they love.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And so, she called the those types of jobs not blue collar not white collar but new collar.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Because it's all around the skills and gaining skills through self education, you might have gone through Community college, a code boot camp.
Kimberly Greene Starks: any number of ways, on the job training in the military other ways to get to the skills that we need in tech.
Kimberly Greene Starks: So on the next slide you'll see a few of the programs that we have available for these quote unquote non traditional leaning people who have who are reentry reentering or entering for the first time the tech technology fields, the first one, you can go to the next slide is called apprenticeship.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And these are roles you'll see some of the roles identified.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Where you get some training on your own however you choose IBM has programs, but as Rachel mentioned Microsoft has programs we're all doing something similar it around to get you the skills you needed a cursory level.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Plus those boot boot camps and other other avenues of education for self learning, but then.
Kimberly Greene Starks: To get to talent pool around jobs and software development client support data specialists some engineering tech cut type roles, where.
Kimberly Greene Starks: When you join us we match you with someone who seasoned in that role we get a mentor you have your coach to bring you along to get you up to speed.
Kimberly Greene Starks: and actually I have on one of my development teams, a young lady who came from the fashion industry.
Kimberly Greene Starks: who came out of our apprenticeship program and she's been with me for two years phenomenal because it's not about where you started it's where you want to be.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And we have tools to get you there so that's the apprenticeship program the next one on the next slide is the tech re entry Program.
Kimberly Greene Starks: This one's more about if you left the workforce for a number of years to care for someone or.
Kimberly Greene Starks: for any reason, a way for you to onboard back into technology, so we call that a return ship and it lasts about six months, you do some rotational assignments within IBM.
Kimberly Greene Starks: But really the main jobs that were targeting for for for this type of effort are those you see the data scientist or engineer a project manager because, unlike in the apprenticeship program this might have been someone who.
Kimberly Greene Starks: worked in tech, a number of years ago, but is coming back and you'll hear I think tomorrow Jennifer Holland, who retired from IBM, a few years ago.
Kimberly Greene Starks: This is one of the program she started when she was up with IBM to bring women back back back into the back into the workforce explicitly, but this is open up to all all genders, of course, and the next one.
Kimberly Greene Starks: is how is a special program for the neuro diverse population so again someone on my team fits into this category.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And so that we can always make sure we have various points of you in the solutions we build for our clients this program is specifically targeted to those with autism and ADHD dyslexia threats and a number of other neurological difference, who bring frankly.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Good perspective on accessibility concerns in our development so that we make sure that accessibility in our design is always at the forefront.
Kimberly Greene Starks: The next program on the next slide is the p tech program, so this is a special program we've part of partnering with a lot of industry partners to create.
Kimberly Greene Starks: High School but plus is like I like to call it, and a few years ago pre pandemic P tech went open so open P tech so that there's opportunity for for students who aren't at the traditional.
Kimberly Greene Starks: In the classroom setting can also benefit from the developmental skills industry technology skills that P tech offers, this is a six year public stem modeled.
Kimberly Greene Starks: High School experience, if you will, where you take your traditional four years of traditional high school.
Kimberly Greene Starks: But there's a two year add on to get really immersed in technology, again, you get a mentor from the industry partners like IBM and others and.
Kimberly Greene Starks: You do internships at at IBM in in those in those latter two years you finished with your high school degree, but also an associate degree in the technology area.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Is there another slide perhaps.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Maybe maybe not.
Quincy Brown: I think that's the last slide.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Okay, good so Those are some of the some of the programs that we have available at IBM to.
Kimberly Greene Starks: To get you in the door, if you will, for those who who to either either left and came back to the tech field or didn't start out in the tech field or want to do something completely different and want to upscale.
Quincy Brown: You Mayra did you have anything to share.
Almira Myra Roldan: yeah so I don't have slides, but I do want to share some data with you guys just because a lot of the work that I focus on and working with institutions such as Miami dade and other institutions.
Almira Myra Roldan: Globally, is that we understand that, right now, there are three major gaps, especially for people who are trying to enter the you know re enter or upscale re skill cross skill.
Almira Myra Roldan: And you know it's one we start with an employment gap right, we know that women make up about 40% of all employed adults in the US and pre pandemic.
Almira Myra Roldan: It was interesting that you know of that only about 25% were in any kind of stem role there's also a degree gap.
Almira Myra Roldan: With employers who are now starting to really look at their degree requirements and understand that the field is changing that the world is changing, and that they need to look at.
Almira Myra Roldan: Different avenues and different pipelines to create more opportunities, especially now that you know, we know that dni conversations have been happening.
Almira Myra Roldan: Across the world and it's having a great impact on that degree gap also and the employment gap, and then we have this retention graph gap and with the retention gap when you think about it.
Almira Myra Roldan: there's just a number out there, so like 38% of women who have majored in any kind of stem field.
Almira Myra Roldan: Are you know there's a small percentage of them that actually stay in stem so.
Almira Myra Roldan: it's really interesting to see that there's also what they call like this leaky pipeline.
Almira Myra Roldan: Which is a retention issue for women in stem, and so this is something that we try to address through some reskilling upscaling so aws offers.
Almira Myra Roldan: Some self paced programs that you can go through to actually obtain certification, specifically, we have aws educate So if you are with a higher education institution.
Almira Myra Roldan: You can enroll in aws educate and go through our self guided pathways and explore various pathways to learn about the different careers that are available to you.
Almira Myra Roldan: Because what we're really trying to do is again to try to close those three gaps, so we work with institutions.
Almira Myra Roldan: To ensure that students are you know, leaving the their programs at marketable skills and we're working with employers to help them evaluate their job postings and try to understand what the.
Almira Myra Roldan: Current landscape looks like and where there are opportunities for them to actually retain some high talent that may fall within that degree gap also so we're trying to close all that, and then the retention gap is once you're in that in that employers.
Almira Myra Roldan: Network right within their ecosystem, how can they ensure that they provide you with the support that you need in order to be successful in your role, so we try to tackle it from different angles it's not just strictly through.
Almira Myra Roldan: One direct lens we're looking at it holistically to try and find solutions.
Quincy Brown: that's awesome, so I think some of what asked in the chat i'll summarizes working people find out more.
Quincy Brown: How do we, how do we, I think the slides and or the recording will be available, but you know for like the linkedin learning path right, can I just go into linkedin linkedin learning and find that, how do we learn more about these awesome programs and how people can qualify.
Almira Myra Roldan: So I just posted the link to a database educate and the chat here on zoom i'll post, it also to the APP and a few seconds, but it's a free resource for students and it's as simple as going and joining for aws educate.
Quincy Brown: him Kimberly or Rachel, how do we find out about the things that you just described as well.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Right i'll put the link in the chat as as well, but if you Google tech reentry IBM then you'll you'll find that or but i'll also put a an overarching link, so you can find many of the programs that are available.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And so i'm going i'm going to talk about in just a few minutes for some other questions.
All right.
Quincy Brown: Someone asked about the work may find the Microsoft education, information discounted certifications I think that's that's a you Rachel.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Yes, yes, I will i'll go ahead and i'll i'll dump all the links into the chat as well pretty quickly for for everybody in terms of where you can go ahead and access learning paths and the discounts yeah this is awesome This is great information.
Quincy Brown: and share my screen again as we move on to Question to.
Quincy Brown: That worked alright, so the next question is about you know what how these courses and these and these and these programs differ quite how they compared to traditional traditional college the university courses, and so I think Rachel you've got some prepared remarks for this one.
Rachel Wortman Morris: yeah, so I think you know there.
Rachel Wortman Morris: We have a bunch of different pathways to skill development, I would say that the the most accessible, one that you can can go to right now, you know as Microsoft COM whack learn.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know this is really an incredible.
Rachel Wortman Morris: place to start, because it really allows you to choose your path, and it also allows you multiple ways of going ahead and getting there.
Rachel Wortman Morris: So we have things you know complete learning paths on learn, so you can go ahead and build your knowledge through there, and also that leads you then to.
Rachel Wortman Morris: going ahead, to be able to take the certification if self directed learning is not your thing which I totally get that for some people like sitting in front of a screen.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Is not you can also go there and find learning partners, we have a massive global learning partners ecosystem.
Rachel Wortman Morris: In terms of you know, third parties who will go ahead, who have instructor led training, who will go ahead and teach you and coach you along the way to help you develop your skills.
Rachel Wortman Morris: We also have and i'll put the link to this as well, we have virtual training days so hosted by Microsoft.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Where there is, you know if you want to go ahead and learn about azure you can go ahead and sit in front of your computer you in 3000 of your friends.
Rachel Wortman Morris: For about you know eight to 16 hours of training to go ahead and there are instructors there who are instructing you their chat moderators who are going ahead and supporting you.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so, those are a number of ways to go ahead and kind of approach you know various pathways Scott, I think I have one more slide.
Quincy Brown: i'm just going to ask the question that I know everyone is thinking is it free.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Yes, yes, I was at how about this, let me, let me caveat that the learning pass on learn our free the virtual training days are free learning partners get to choose their own you know what they're going to charge for.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Free so so some of them may be free i'm not sure, but you know that some of those may may have a fee, I actually I do know for a fact right now that if you are in i'm going to get the country's wrong.
Rachel Wortman Morris: If you're in Central Europe, there is like an Ai fundamentals going on right now for like free classes there's one in the UK happening, so I think also there's there's some there are some global dynamics at play.
Rachel Wortman Morris: there's also another piece that i'm i'm really happy that we were pursuing for more and more of our.
Rachel Wortman Morris: certifications which is.
Rachel Wortman Morris: I want us to see because I saw that there was a question in the chat like hey do we see certifications surpassing degree requirements, and I think that's a really great and provocative question.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Our standpoint, at least, you know as at Microsoft is like we want to go ahead and empower everybody, and so I also want to make this sort of bi directional.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so what we have done is we're working to go ahead and ensure that they're you know for exams, you can go ahead and then get college credit for those so you know if you're going ahead and looking at you know hey I have some time this summer, let me go ahead and take my.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know or my.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Not only are you building your certification profile, but you can then go ahead and ask that your college except those credits and have them applied your transcript.
Rachel Wortman Morris: So that you're you're building in both directions and so that's one of the things that I think is is really important, we know that certifications.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Provide deep technical skilling We also know, for ultimate success, you know it's not just about technical skilling for the longevity of your career, and so I want to make sure that there is many opportunities available for individuals yeah a follow up to that so.
Quincy Brown: Is that for any university or is it like I guess.
Quincy Brown: You learn about these pathways and then people want to know, like what is that, at my score is that, like, how do you who do you talk to to figure that out.
Rachel Wortman Morris: yeah so so again it's in the slide but all all thrown in the trash in terms of like how aces doing it here here's The one thing I will say, as is predominantly us and it's one of those things.
Rachel Wortman Morris: That I that I that I struggle with because again working for a global company we're trying to find ways to make this.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know, not just as us focus and so we're working with some other accrediting bodies globally, but I would say that we have the deepest penetration right now they're awesome yeah.
Quincy Brown: myra did you have anything you wanted to add on the topic of how your you know your work differs from other colleges and universities.
Almira Myra Roldan: yeah so um we work directly with colleges and universities to help them embed cloud computing into their degree programs.
Almira Myra Roldan: So when we think about certification my favorite line to kind of share is like certification is good but it's not sufficient.
Almira Myra Roldan: Because, at the end what we want you to be able to do is demonstrate.
Almira Myra Roldan: That you're able to do the thing you can do, and not just be able to show a certification that says, you know you were able to take an exam and passed the exam we also want you to be able to build be able to build be able to.
Almira Myra Roldan: Support the decisions you make, and so that's why we work with higher education institutions and academic institutions globally to help embed some of those knowledge can comment components into the curriculum.
awesome.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Similarly, we partner with academic institutions to embed training certificate programs the red hat academy some other topics that i'll come back to and in just a moment for upscaling and rescaling through the academic academic paths.
Quincy Brown: And I appreciate you you all mentioning that, because one of the questions that came up in the previous session was about you know how you build and so.
Quincy Brown: You know, getting the certification is is a step, but then, how do you build and demonstrate right that you that you actually have the skill and can use that so that leads us into our I don't know if this is a million going back and forth.
Quincy Brown: don't do that anymore.
Quincy Brown: For our third question um but to you know ask about you know what.
Quincy Brown: The traditional college university departments can do to offer the skill development courses, as part of their program, so I think we have.
Really.
Kimberly Greene Starks: You can move on okay.
Quincy Brown: yeah.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And, and the next one that we all know, academia plays a huge part this is tj but he's my favorite little friend and I use tj but often in workshops at academic institutions.
Kimberly Greene Starks: To introduce the topics of working with cloud services and work in the cloud, and that is speech to text and some of the things that.
Kimberly Greene Starks: An Ai and other and other areas for non engineering majors because everyone wants to have a little buddy who can talk back and and have.
Kimberly Greene Starks: bragging rights in their dorm room or or behind them on the table and webex or in zoom when they're when they're in class, and so this is a project that was started at IBM research several several years ago that has been really popular, not only in the.
Kimberly Greene Starks: environment, but also in the high school the eight eight through 12 eight through 12 age age groups of students to introduce some of some of the technologies so move move ahead, please, and so through IBM academic ambassadors who might come to your school or through.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Or at your university we offer offer workshops in rescaling in skills development in our technology area so you'll understand IBM point of view on on all of those things, but then there are also some more formal.
Kimberly Greene Starks: programs and I mentioned i'm the global leader of infrastructure for university programs.
Kimberly Greene Starks: So the programs that the infrastructure that these programs sit on that's my day job, and there are program managers and these programs all have global reach, so the academic initiative is a self serve offering.
Kimberly Greene Starks: or student faculties can click faculty members can go download enterprise ready software, so the same software that we give we sell to our commercial clients, you have access through.
Kimberly Greene Starks: To through the academic initiative and faculty members use these as components to build into their curricula.
Kimberly Greene Starks: This is one program and so, if you go to the next slide you'll See also available on academic initiative our micro credentials, where you can get foundational.
Kimberly Greene Starks: level course introductions to some of our favorite topics where where the future is showing in the present, for that matter is showing that we need more people with skills.
Kimberly Greene Starks: So introductory levels also available on back and initiative as ways to boost your your CV and get you the base knowledge that you can build upon.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And so, this program, as I mentioned, is is available only through an academic institution, so if you have a.edu equivalent email address you'll be able to access this this material and content on the next slide.
Kimberly Greene Starks: So, then, we have a program that's called IBM skills Academy, which is more of a instructor led offering where you're at university.
Kimberly Greene Starks: At a number of them around the world, one of them actually being Miami dade college, who is very.
Kimberly Greene Starks: positioned in this conference to learn about the technology tracks and the guys here is to go from zero to hero, so that you can have enough skill.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Through these courses to actually have an entry level positioning to get a job in one of the technology areas and the focus is here or artificial intelligence all of our favorite cybersecurity blockchain Internet of Things enterprise design thinking quantum and even quantum computing.
Kimberly Greene Starks: On the next slide.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And you'll see that the these programs and instructor led offering are broken down into a bit of lecture the traditional what you would expect from an academic course.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Talking about the market research and also future trends, but then the biggest component here is their hands on experiential learning that get you.
Kimberly Greene Starks: The practice, in addition to that you work through group work activities, using the same methodologies that we use at IBM to solution for own clients, so you get introduced to IBM design.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Enterprise design thinking collaboration through garage methodology and in those labs using those labs to reinforce the learning, but also to solution projects around use cases that have come directly from industry.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And again, these are offered globally through academic partners such as Miami dade or that island bass, the College of Highland and islands and Scotland and a number of universities all around the world.
Kimberly Greene Starks: The next slide.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And these are more of the offerings that are available through the skills Academy.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Around security data science artificial intelligence and cloud.
Kimberly Greene Starks: think that might be the last one, probably.
Quincy Brown: awesome Thank you.
Quincy Brown: Rachel you had some prepared.
Quincy Brown: Remarks question as well, you whoops wrong one i'm away.
Rachel Wortman Morris: No worries I can I can start talking, you can.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You all see that yes.
Rachel Wortman Morris: But I don't it's not full Sir it's it's fine.
alright.
Rachel Wortman Morris: So what i'm gonna do is i'm going to talk with you about the Microsoft learn for educators Program.
And click the link.
Quincy Brown: Together, give me one second because I don't have the link and then, once i'm.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Not I can also I have the presentation up so i'm okay taking over if you want.
Quincy Brown: yeah why don't you do that because i'm on the struggle bus yeah.
Rachel Wortman Morris: All right, except now, I have to remember how to use zoom um oh actually I don't have I don't have permission.
Quincy Brown: I think i'm back i'm back.
Okay.
Rachel Wortman Morris: just talk so um what i'm going to share with you and talk with you about is the Microsoft learn for educators Program.
Rachel Wortman Morris: This is something i'm incredibly proud of this is a program that was built by college faculty members for college faculty members, and so we piloted this pretty extensively with a number of.
Rachel Wortman Morris: colleges Community colleges polytechnics universities around the globe.
Rachel Wortman Morris: We went into beta and we actually just went GA in in late January and actually since going GA we've seen an increase of about 30%.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And the number of institutions who are really excited about joining joining our program, and so this is really an opportunity for us to go ahead and ultimately support students.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so we're working with faculty members and helping them not only build their technical skills, but also then helping them to embed.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know, Microsoft official curriculum into their courses, so this is about really going ahead and saying we want to work with you faculty members, we recognize that, in a lot of cases, you have.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Some incredible expertise in cloud technology, we want to go ahead and I think about it as sort of.
Rachel Wortman Morris: A dual degree program, if you will, that along the way, as students are going through their college path.
Rachel Wortman Morris: They are you know, hopefully getting fabulous grades in their classes and also getting certifications along the way, so if we want to go to the next slide because, again, you know, to the question earlier like hey what you know we don't entirely know what the future holds.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so, also with this, you know faculty members really want the right resources and so that's what we're going ahead and pulling together so on the next slide.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know this is really about with faculty taking their expertise coupling that with learn and really helping to give students valuable tech skills.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And really making sure that what we're doing is aligned to industry relevant things and so there's a whole process we go through in terms of.
Rachel Wortman Morris: For how we go ahead and create our courses and how we create our exams, but all of that is really tied back to the overarching job market and a lot of the partnership work that we do through linkedin to get that data and to be able to see what's important so as we go to the next slide.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know, one of the the pilot institutions that we worked with university of Lincoln.
Rachel Wortman Morris: We kicked off this pilot January last year, so it was very interesting to be in a pilot and then have a pandemic hit you.
Rachel Wortman Morris: I mean I literally remember showing up at work and saying I don't know I don't know what is going to.
Rachel Wortman Morris: happen to our program but this actually one of the things that was amazing was that the students.
Rachel Wortman Morris: found this so incredibly important this became a touchstone for them, and a lot of them went ahead and said, like this was more valuable than my coursework because as i'm watching frankly the job market crumbling around me.
Rachel Wortman Morris: This this was helping me to kind of kind of keep going and so i've shared a link out to the to the video there, so if we're going to go to the next.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know, when we think about what we're trying to do for faculty members and academic institutions, and I think there's another yeah I don't know if it's slower slower building.
Rachel Wortman Morris: we're providing the faculty members, you know the curriculum and teaching materials.
Rachel Wortman Morris: We are then going ahead and providing to faculty members free practice exams and certification exams, we do not.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Make faculty members, at least for fundamentals go ahead and get certified a lot of them again come to us with a great deal of deep technical knowledge, but we want to support them along the way.
Rachel Wortman Morris: We have a team of training program managers who I kind of think of as your personal trainer your personal tech trainer.
Rachel Wortman Morris: To go ahead and help you as you are working along the way to embed the curriculum into to help you sort of find pathways if there are questions that come up along the way we do curriculum integration support.
Rachel Wortman Morris: We now have we just stood up our fabulous learning for educators community we have over I was in faculty members.
Rachel Wortman Morris: who are already in there, sharing labs and talking about things, we also provide data and insights reporting back to colleges and universities, so that they can understand the impact that this program has.
Rachel Wortman Morris: For their students for their faculty and for their communities right now we're we're looking at you know the four fundamentals.
Rachel Wortman Morris: These are you know wildly in demand, right now, and looking to expand our portfolio pretty significantly.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And as well with that you know we're digging into the research, because we want to understand what the return on investment is for students are these things, making an impact, how is it helping faculty members.
Rachel Wortman Morris: And so you know, again, the research right now is a little bit us based in terms of how we are seeing demand for azure skills, how we're seeing salaries trend because again.
Rachel Wortman Morris: We want to do things that go ahead and really help everybody so there's a i'll put the link in the chat but there's a link to an article there as well, and so.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You know we're now, I think I said, you know worth about 190 schools again we're in I think seven languages and working to you know really go ahead and expand and continue to have this be something that is built by faculty members for faculty members to really you know drive that engagement.
Quincy Brown: Thank you, so we have exact three minutes left, which means we will not get to our last question, but as it was just kind of it's all coming together.
Quincy Brown: Someone added in the chat Nadia that the pandemic has given her the opportunity to go back to school and all my classes have been a great fit.
Quincy Brown: So, in closing i'll give each of you a minute or so to kind of share your thoughts about this pivot you know caused by the pandemic and you know where you see the upside to this right and allowing people to have the flexibility so we'll start with Mayra that's okay.
Almira Myra Roldan: yeah definitely, so I think that um we have all been shut in for like the past almost year and a half right and i'm excited to see that some of you have decided to go back to school, I like to think of learners in in different.
Almira Myra Roldan: kind of buckets right, so I think of you as ups killers cross killers reese killers so wherever you are.
Almira Myra Roldan: Even a new skill or someone who's just new to you know just decided to go to college, after many years.
Almira Myra Roldan: there's opportunities for you right now, because employers are really looking at their workforce and understanding and trying to understand what are the changes that are happening within.
Almira Myra Roldan: Their own organizations, but also within the the world right and how businesses operate.
Almira Myra Roldan: And I think that you're going to find that there will be more opportunities for you, because a lot of employers are now becoming open to remote workers, meaning, you know you don't have to live in the same state that you work.
Almira Myra Roldan: I can i'm a great example of that my office is in Seattle, I live in Nevada.
Almira Myra Roldan: And so you know I work remotely i've worked remotely my entire Amazon career and prior to that I worked remotely also as a technical consultant so there's opportunities for you.
Almira Myra Roldan: I would say don't be afraid to go after those big opportunities, because employers are also pivoting from looking at.
Almira Myra Roldan: Current degree credentials to looking at potential, what is your potential for growth and where can they help you expand your skills, so I would say, be fearless.
Almira Myra Roldan: You know, look at your skills inventory see what your what transferable skills, you have because employers are really adding looking at those as value adds awesome.
Quincy Brown: Thank you Kimberly 30 seconds harding.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Sure, I think the the digital transformation that has happened over the last year and a half, has made phenomenal opportunity for just as my already mentioned.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Working remotely I to I will I live in nashville my VP lives in Florida his VP lives in California our teams are in Brazil and India places in the US.
Kimberly Greene Starks: and Canada all over the globe and we've been a collaborative culture for a number of years, and so, now that the rest of the world was forced to look take another look at how they collaborate and work together for.
Kimberly Greene Starks: them internally but also for their clients we've seen huge strides in in ways ways of working.
Kimberly Greene Starks: And so, that means you can work for a company and be on the beach in Mexico someday when we can all travel again.
Kimberly Greene Starks: As long as you get your work done right and in there, and that means is no longer a hindrance to advancement that should be co located with your manager I think that's the other huge benefit that we've seen as this quote unquote silver lining of this pandemic.
Kimberly Greene Starks: Thank you Rachel.
Rachel Wortman Morris: yeah i'm gonna say you know what my run Kimberly said, like pandemic is up ended things like future of work is wherever you want to be, and I think it really then becomes about.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Finding the employer that, frankly, has you know the the the the mindset that really sees this as a benefit and also you know.
Rachel Wortman Morris: understands what it means, I think, actually, the challenge becomes upon you, the worker to do a really good job of defining your boundaries.
Rachel Wortman Morris: You can work anywhere, and you can work anytime and that sometimes means all the time, and so I think it really for a lot of people is it's an incredible opportunity and you need to structure it in a way that makes sense for you and is healthy for you.
Quincy Brown: awesome Thank you all so much this was awesome we didn't I guess we snuck in the last question, but I appreciate you all taking your time to join us today.
Quincy Brown: To support the conference and really being active in the chat as and making sure all the questions get answered in the dress and have a wonderful rest of your day enjoy the rest of the conference.
Rachel Wortman Morris: Thank you so much.
Elodie Billionniere: fun, thank you, Dr brown for moderating the panel, thank you very much.
Quincy Brown: Thank you bye bye.
Elodie Billionniere: Thank you, ladies, thank you very much.
Elodie Billionniere: Please don't forget to complete the survey, thank you.